[Music]
okay so i've never really loved the
camera systems on oneplus phones like
they're good
they're often really good for the money
but they're never great
camera systems except for the oneplus 8
pro this was
the first and only camera system to date
that i feel was a truly
great camera system that came from
oneplus now recently
the company's come forward saying that
their oneplus 9 and oneplus 9 pro camera
systems
were developed in partnership with
hasselblad the
famous swedish camera company that sent
their camera to the moon to take
pictures of the lunar landing
it is a iconic photograph that i think
most of you have seen
but in terms of how it's relevant to
smartphones we're about to find out
so recently the company as well as the
ceo of the company pete lau have been
putting stuff on twitter and on their
social media pages
these like pictures and comparative
photos of what
their new camera system is capable of
and i want to talk about that
so in this tweet here they're drawing
attention to the ultra wide capabilities
of the oneplus 9 series and you have one
photo from a regular ultrawide lens from
a competing smartphone
and then you have a second photo from
one of the oneplus 9 phones
so the difference is pretty obvious
right the new ultrawide lens
heavily reduces that whole fish-eyed
bowing
of the image now as someone who uses the
ultrawide lens a lot
on his phone that's pretty cool like i
don't mind the fisheye i actually think
that in certain shots it gives this
kind of dynamic action vibe to it but
there are other times when you're
shooting landscapes
or buildings or scenes with a lot of
straight lines in it
and having that distortion kind of ruins
the image now
oneplus had a whole bunch of shots taken
on their new ultrawide
and i can't tell whether these are taken
with the oneplus 9 or the oneplus 9 pro
and also can't tell
how much post editing has been done in
these but they do look nice
and more importantly they are seemingly
distortion free which is pretty neat
coming from a smartphone camera
now the way that they're doing it is
through a freeform lens on the imx
766 sensor so this lens can correct the
distortion
before it even hits the sensor which is
kind of neat and if you look at those
images
it seems pretty convincing now the
second thing we've talked about
is their new custom sensor that they've
made for the main
like the flagship sensor the imx 789
it's the successor to the
sensor that was in this thing and it's
supposedly custom made
specifically for the oneplus 9 series
and this sensor is supposed to be
stacked it can shoot
4k video at 120 frames per second it can
shoot 12-bit raw images
and it has sony's new digital overlap
hdr which is supposed to be really fast
where they're taking two exposures
at the same time or almost the same time
and they're able to merge it into one
really clean image but because it's
super fast they're able to use that same
tech
in video now supposedly we'll have to
see but
if you've noticed none of this has
anything to do with hasselblad yet like
this stuff
is hardware and i don't think it's
dependent on their partnership
with hasselblad as an even if they
didn't have that partnership they'd
still have access to these new sensors
and new lenses so where does hasselblad
really come into play here like what are
they actually doing
in this partnership and i think the
answer lies in software particularly
in color so in their original media
statement they mentioned that they had
worked with hasselblad to develop some
new color science for their camera
systems
and that's important but i don't know
how valuable that really is
when it comes to the oneplus camera
systems like
it's not like their colors were terrible
to begin with right i will say that
there have been
issues like especially when it comes to
switching lenses even the oneplus 8 pro
had this issue like if you're
switching between like the zoom lens and
the wide and the ultra wide there is
like a slight
color shift between them like some are
more pink some are more green
and i'm assuming that this partnership
can resolve
issues like that but color it's
important but this was a very expensive
investment
and there's a part of me that worries or
at least wonders how much of that 150
million
is just for licensing right just for the
ability or the privilege to be able to
put hasselblad
onto the back of your phone and the real
question like the most important
question you should be asking yourself
as a consumer
like once all the reviews are coming out
and you're looking at this stuff like
how much
of this color science or how much of
these improvements really matters to you
as an individual because everyone's
different on this stuff like i
personally love
the nightscape mode on the oneplus 8 pro
i think this phone does it better than
everybody else better than apple's
iphones better than the pixels better
than
samsung's galaxy phones this phone has
this uncanny ability to shoot
that nighttime scene outside of my condo
really nicely and
i like it i like that stylized look that
it gives
but it's not for everybody and when it
comes to colors because colors are a big
part of this
hasselblad partnership right now colors
are very subjective
some people like realistic looking
images that are flatter some people like
stuff to be more vibrant and more
exaggerated or stylized and there's
nothing wrong with that but there is
a difference in people's tastes now me
personally
i think that this partnership is going
to be
i think it's going to be legit and it
stems from this
it stems from the attention right
oneplus has intentionally drawn a lot of
eyeballs to this partnership
and if for whatever reason it's not
legitimate and it's not
it doesn't yield great results oneplus
is gonna look like clowns
straight up they're they know that right
so i don't think they would have drawn
as much attention as they did
to this whole partnership unless they
actually had something
to show for it i hope it's going to be
good i really think
i should rephrase i hope that this is
the year
that oneplus goes from like right right
where they've always been that kind of
mid-tier good product to something that
legitimately competes with the best
of the smartphone cameras out there that
would be pretty cool okay
hope you guys enjoyed this video thumbs
if you liked it subs if you loved it see
you guys next time
[Music]
you